[DAEDALUS] Not enough...
[DAEDALUS] Just out of reach...
All of it, every last detail...
And yet, I shall prevail...
[DAEDALUS] ...even after
this body rots away!
[DAEDALUS] This hunger, this
thirst... There is no escape!
[DAEDALUS] Become a
slave to your desire!
[DAEDALUS] Obey the blood
coursing through your veins!
[DAEDALUS] Swear loyalty to that
which you crave!
(DAEDALUS laughing)
(IKELOS chuckle)
[IKELOS] Priceless...!
The kids are at it...
They never cease to amuse.
(Opening Song, "over and over")
[GLOS] Where have you
taken our comrades?!
[GLOS] Speak up, human!
[IKELOS FAMILIA DUDE C]
I swear, I-I don't know...
[GLOS] Do not play innocent!
[GLOS] I can smell it on you...
The scent of Lanier's venom!
You reek of it!
(IKELOS FAMILIA DUDE C scared)
(gasping)
[GLOS] Answer the question!
What have you done with them?!
(IKELOS FAMLIA DUDE C pain)
[IKELOS FAMILIA DUDE C]
You will find a door...
along the eastern wall...
[GLOS] A door... (leap)
(IKELOS FAMILIA DUDE C laughing)
[IKELOS FAMILIA DUDE C]
But you can't get in...
[IKELOS FAMILIA DUDE C] It's
impossible. Not without...
(MODAK gasp)
[MODAK] Captain Shakti,
Miss Ilta! Over there!
[MODAK] It's the armed monsters!
[ILTA] Nice job, bud!
My name is Modak! You
oughtta know that by now!
[ILTA] Yeah, right, I remember.
I gotcha, pal.
[MODAK] I just told you my name
five seconds ago!
[MODAK] You aren't
even trying, are you?!
(BELL somber)
It would appear that
they're headed east...
towards the forest...
[SHAKTI] I wonder why.
[ILTA] Okay, Sister...
What's next?
[SHAKTI] Let's split
into two groups.
[SHAKTI] Momonga...
head to Rivira.
[SHAKTI] Help any
survivors you find.
[MODAK] Roger that!
[SHAKTI] The rest of you
will be following me,
we shall be heading to the east!
[MODAK] It's "Modak," by the
way!
(GANESHA FAMILIA pumped!)
(LIDO notice)
(GANESHA FAMILIA yelling)
Remember: The targets
are to be tamed!
You are to bring
them in alive!
[LIDO] Go ahead without
us, Rhett! (charge)
(XENOS charge)
(fighting continues)
[AISHA] It's looks like
Ganesha's kiddos are having a
tough time, wouldn't you say?
[RYU] Do you see those armed
monsters? They're strong.
[ASFI] Our job is merely to
collect information and protect
Bell Cranel...
[RYU] I'm gonna go down there.
[ASFI] Wha-? No!
[RYU] Besides, we've lost
sight of Mr. Cranel.
[RYU] I'll search for him
while fighting.
[AISHA] Everyone
coddles that boy...
[ASFI] Wait a minute, you two!
[ASFI] At least wear
your invisibility-
[ASFI] Oh, come on...!
(fighting)
(BELL gasp)
(LAMIA A question)
(LIDO growl)
[BELL] Mr. Lido?!
(LIDO swing)
Why have you come
here, Bellcchi?!
(BELL straining) (pushed back)
(LIDO roar)
(REI feather fling!) (gasp)
(ILTA tense)
[ILTA] Wha-? Antianeira?!
[ILTA] The hell are
you doing here?!
[AISHA] I don't think you should
get hung up on the details...
Not when it's clear...
you could use the help!
(UNICORN A horse pain)
[GANESHA FAMILIA DUDE A]
Wh-who are you?!
[RYU] Just a random passerby.
[LIDO] Why...?! Why are
you here, Bellchi? Tell me!
[BELL] Well I... I heard
Rivira had been destroyed
by armed monsters...
[BELL] Are you the
ones responsible?
[LIDO] Yes... We
attacked the town.
[BELL] Why would you do that?!
(LIDO sigh)
[LIDO] A group of hunters...
They murdered our comrades.
(BELL gasp)
[LIDO] The bastards...
They made off with
Wiene and Fia...
They took Wiene?!
[LIDO] Sorry, Bellcchi...
[LIDO] We really are
the "monsters" that you
surface-dwellers fear.
(BELL question)
[LIDO] I tried my damnedest
to convince 'em...
[LIDO] But it was no use!
[LIDO] And I'm exactly the same!
[LIDO] The rage is
boiling inside me...
[LIDO] The hunters
who slaughtered my comrades...
I wanna rip 'em limb from limb!
[LIDO] We're on our
way to rescue Wiene.
We'll save our friends
no matter the cost.
Okay, then... I'm coming-
[LIDO] Stay back!
(BELL gasp)
[LIDO] You're human, Bellcchi.
[LIDO] No need to concern
yourself with monsters. Go home!
[BELL] Mr. Lido...!
[LIDO] If you're caught
fraternizing
with the enemy... you'll
lose everything!
[LIDO] What are
you waiting for?!
[LIDO] Hurry home to
Lilicchi and the others!
[BELL] Mr. Lido...
[LIDO] I said go!
[BELL] But please...
[LIDO] Get out of here!
[BELL] I know, but
I want to help you!
(LIDO roaring)
[RYU] Mr. Cranel!
(LIDO growl)
(RYU grunt)
[RYU] Are you hurt, Mr. Cranel?
[BELL] Miss Ryu,
why're you here?
[RYU] We shall discuss
the details later.
[RYU] It's dangerous
out here alone.
[RYU] Let us return to
the Ganesha Familia.
(RYU notice)
[RYU] Mr. Cranel...?
I'm sorry to tell you
this Miss Ryu...
But I'm going after
that monster.
(RYU surprise)
[BELL] Just leave me be!
[RYU] You have gotten yourself
involved with a Familia that
has some sort of ties to the
illicit organization known as
Evilus.
[RYU] You know that right?
(BELL gasp)
[RYU] I will stop at nothing
to ensure Evilus' destruction.
[RYU] The last thing I want
is for you to get tangled in
their sinister web.
[RYU] Will you return to the
surface with me? Syr is worried
sick.
[RYU] Fine.
[RYU] You've become an
adventurer, through and through.
(BELL surprise)
[RYU] There's no point in trying
to stop you.
[RYU] Take this.
[RYU] Just in case you
run into trouble.
[RYU] Perhaps it will prove
useful in some way...
[BELL] I really appreciate it...
Thanks a lot.
(BELL hesitate)
[BELL] ...and I'm sorry!
[LIDO] Glos! The door?
[GLOS] No luck.
We can't find it!
[GLOS] And when I call out
to our brethren, there's no
response!
[DIX] Hey Gran, time
to open up the door.
[GRAN] (surprised)
You sure, Dix?
Let's invite our freaky
little friends to the party.
[DIX] I mean why should we wait?
Let's take care of 'em, right
here and now...
[FELS] Bell Cranel!
[BELL] Huh? (notice)
[BELL] Mr. Fels!
[FELS] I'm glad
that I found you.
[FELS] Glos is headed
to the east.
[FELS] It would seem that they
captured and extracted
information from a hunter in
town.
[FELS] There should be a door
along the eastern wall...
[BELL] There's nothing here...
[FELS] This is the
edge of the floor.
We cannot travel
any farther east.
(BELL notice) (surprised)
(FELS surprised)
[FELS] Bell Cranel,
what is that?
[FELS] It's reacting
to something...?
[FELS] Then perhaps...
[FELS] Stand back, Bell Cranel.
(BELL observe)
[BELL] What tha...
[FELS] This is not a
natural formation...
[FELS] Clearly, it is
a man-made structure.
[FELS] Hmm? Is that...
...orichalcum?!
[FELS] A refined metal with a
durability surpassing that of
adamantite...
[FELS] Which means that it's
virtually impossible to destroy,
even with the use of magic.
However...
[FELS] Unbelievable...
[FELS] Something like
this, in the Dungeon...?
(BELL question) (notice)
[FELS] "Daedalus"...
[WELF] Dammit...! We
gotta help somehow.
[MIKOTO] They're going to great
lengths to maintain the Guild's
orders,
I'd say any attempt to sneak
in would be futile.
I hate waiting around,
it's just stupid.
This is my life when you guys
are out.. Welcome to my world.
[WELF] Hmm? Huh? Oh, uh...
(nervous laugh)
[HARUHIME] Master Bell....
[WELF] Listen... Assuming that
the hunters were
the cause of this whole
fiasco, why not just track
down their hideout?
[WELF] If they're sellin' the
Xenos on the black market,
they oughtta have a base
somewhere in Orario, right?
[MIKOTO] Probably, Welf...
That's a good assumption.
[HARUHIME] But how would we go
about searching for something
like that?
(ALL disheartened)
(HESTIA sigh)
Perfectly content selling off
monsters to the
highest bidder...
[HESTIA] These people aren't
afraid of the Dungeon,
let alone the gods.
[HESTIA] I don't think it'll
be so easy to find them...
[LILI] (gasp) Right! They sell
monsters for profit...!
(ALL question)
[ZANIS] I never would have
dreamed of seeing someone like
you here... Arde.
[LILI] There's something that
I would like to ask you.
[LILI] It regards
"talking monsters".
[ZANIS] We know you possess
a peculiar sort of
transformation magic..
You mentioned it once...
Something of a plan to
lure the monsters out.
Then capture them, and sell
them on the black market.
At the time, I dismissed
it as total nonsense.
I thought that no one would
pay any money for monsters...
However... things
have changed...
[ZANIS] I get it...
(ZANIS chuckle)
[ZANIS] You met one, didn't you?
One of the talking
monsters, that is.
[LILI] Which means, if you were
conspiring with those hunters...
...then you must at least
have some idea of where
their base is.
Perhaps you're correct...
And perhaps you'll find
something interesting on
Daedalus Street...
[BELL] So this place... connects
to Daedalus Street...?
[FELS] Yes. They were able to
transport imprisoned Xenos
to the surface and smuggle
them outside Orario, all
while avoiding detection...
[FELS] If it is connected to the
surface, everything would make
sense.
[FELS] Besides,
there's that sign...
[FELS] These tunnels
are obviously the
work of Daedalus...
[FELS] ...a master craftsman who
created several structures that
would lay the groundwork for
Orario, including Babel and
Daedalus Street.
(BELL surprised)
[FELS] We have long suspected
the possibility of another way
to access the Dungeon outside
of the usual tower entrance...
[FELS] But our investigation
had yet to yield results.
[FELS] We've finally
found it, Uranus...
[HERMES] Ikelos.
[IKELOS] Huh?
(IKELOS laughing)
Guess ya' finally
caught up with me.
I guess you win this
round, Hermes.
[IKELOS] I've no control over
the present situation...
but as a reward for finding me,
I shall answer any questions
that you may have.
So... what would you
like to know?
[GLOS] The scent of our
brethren grows stronger!
[GLOS] Onward!
So about this door, Lido...
I can't help but
think it's a trap!
[LIDO] I know...
[LIDO] But there's
no other choice!
(LIDO shock)
[LIDO] What in the hell?
[FIA] Get us out!
(BOTH shock)
[GLOS] Dismantle the cages!
Retrieve our brethren!
[LIDO] Are you alright, Fia?!
(XENOS breaking
cages open/rushing)
[LIDO] What happened to Wiene?!
[FIA] I have no idea.
[FIA] I guess while
I was passed out,
they must have taken her away.
[DIX] What a touching reunion!
[DIX] Congratulations on getting
this far, creatures...
Welcome to our humble home.
[GLOS] You must be the hunter
who's been selling our
brethren into slavery!
Yup. I'm your guy.
And I beat some manners into 'em
too so that they don't offend
our gracious customers.
[GLOS] You son of a bitch!
[DIX] Well honestly
I did have some help.
[DIX] So I was wondering...
(BOTH notice)
[DIX] Just How well can you
fight... while protectin' your
precious cargo?
(BOTH notice)
(BOTH annoyed)
[BELL] Mr. Lido! (running)
(BOTH notice)
[LIDO] B-Bellcchi?!
[GLOS] You're the little
puke from before!
[GLOS] What the hell
are you doing here?!
[DIX] Oh? Gran, you dumbass!
I don't remember tellin' you to
let the damn rabbit-boy in here!
Uh-wait, it's not my fault!
I know I closed the
door behind me!
[FELS] Look Bell!
(BELL gasp)
Another key!
(chuckle) Ahhh...
so that's how it is, huh?
Which incompetent idiot
did you swipe that from?
Maybe I shouldn't hand 'em
out like candy...
[FELS] "Hazer"... Dix Perdix.
[FELS] Are you the culprit
behind this incident?
[DIX] Well, you're
a fine one to talk, mage.
[DIX] Now you've got me
curious...
Just what sort of relationship
do you and the Little Rookie
have with these creatures?
[FELS] This man-made labyrinth
was built by none other than
Daedalus, was it not?!
[FELS] How did someone
like you lay hold of it?!
(DIX laugh)
[DIX] There's nothin' to tell.
[DIX] This old baby's been
pawned off
from one generation to the next.
And as a descendant
of the bloodline,
it's really nobody's business
how I choose to use it.
[BELL] Descendant...? You...?
[DIX] What, is it
so hard to believe?
[DIX] Fine then. I'll show you.
[DIX] Definitive proof that
Daedalus... is my ancestor!
(BELL surprised)
(FELS surprised)
[DIX] Everyone who has that
shithead's blood flowin' through
their veins ends up bein' born
with eyes like this.
[DIX] It's the burden we bear!
[HERMES] A man-made labyrinth...
And a vow that haunts Daedalus's
blood relatives to this very
day...
So what I'm gettin' is...
Daedalus only wanted his own
lineage carrying on his work....
[HERMES] ...so he built a door
that only opens when is
recognizes their distinctive
eyes?
[IKELOS] Yep and Dix and his
pals gouged the eyeballs outta
some corpses and turned 'em into
"keys."
[HERMES] Makes sense...
[HERMES] Thanks to you,
I'm starting to understand...
Now we know what
we're dealing with.
[HERMES] A thousand years ago,
after the gods made their
descent,
they bestowed their first
blessings upon the Lower World.
[HERMES] Uranus introduced
Farna, and amongst his few
followers...
[HERMES] ...was Daedalus.
[HERMES] In accordance with
Uranus' divine will,
he dedicated himself to
Orario's construction,
[HERMES] and upon completing
Babel, he reveled in the gods'
praise.
[HERMES] He's a genius... and
his skills went unmatched...
[DIX] But when said genius laid
his eyes upon the breathtaking
"work of art"
that stretched just beneath
the world's surface...
...the crackpot lost
his freakin' mind!
[HERMES] An underground
labyrinth: The Dungeon.
In his eyes, it transcends
human comprehension.
[HERMES] Hence, the perfect
"work of art."
[DIX] It completely shattered
his dreams! It destroyed him!
He became obsessed!
[FELS] Once admired
for his skills,
Daedalus' speech and
behavior grew erratic.
[FELS] They called him crazy...
[FELS] Eventually he
vanished into thin air.
So do you mean to tell me...?
[DIX] Bingo! He left to create a
"work of art"
with his own hands that would
outshine the Dungeon itself!
[DIX] A man-made labyrinth
known as "Knossos"!
What does that mean?
[FELS] Daedalus' legacy...
[FELS] Am I to assume that this
place is it?
[DIX] Well... it's not
quite finished yet.
[HERMES] Humans are bound by
the inevitability of death.
[HERMES] I'm guessing that even
a genius like Daedalus couldn't
compete with the mortal effects
of aging.
[IKELOS] The old coot
still didn't quit.
He dumped responsibility for
Knossos on his descendants,
along with the blueprints.
[IKELOS] He even laid it out for
'em all nice and neat in his
little notebook.
[HERMES] (surprised)
Hold on, Ikelos...
[HERMES] If what you just
said is true, then...!
[DIX] For a millennium...
the Daedalus bloodline
has been hammerin' away
at these tunnels nonstop!
(BOTH shocked)
[DIX] And yet, despite a
thousand years' worth of effort,
the middle floors are the
deepest we've managed to get.
(IKELOS cackling)
[IKELOS] Oh and let
us not forget...
Daedalus's project
ain't exactly cheap.
It's costing us
time... and money.
[HERMES] That would explain why
your Familia allied themselves
with Evilus.
All of it was for the sake
of completing Knossos...
[FELS] So capturing the Xenos
and selling them as merchandise
was merely a means of procuring
funds?
[DIX] Uh-huh... Well,
at first, anyway...
[GLOS] Enough talk!
The fact that you
disgraced my comrades
and murdered Lanier in cold
blood has not changed!
[GLOS] Accept your punishment!
(BELL block) (annoyed)
[FELS] Rhett!
(RHETT affirmative) (takes off)
(XENOS attack)
[DIX] I guess I have no
reason to hold back...
[DIX] Time for the big guns.
(FELS notice)
[FELS] Quickly, get behind me!
[DIX] "Lose thyself amidst
an unending illusion"...
[DIX] "Phobetor Daedalus"!
(GLOS shock)
(LIDO shock)
(XENOS pain)
(GOBLIN XENOS B pain) (hit)
(GREEN PIG XENOS swing) (roar)
(XENOS continued
fighting and pain)
(TROLL A roaring)
[BELL] Huh!?
What's the matter
with all of them?!
[FELS] A curse...
[FELS] It is a type of hex that,
unlike ordinary magic,
cannot be warded off.
[FELS] What he cast appears to
stupefy its victims, causing
confusion and violent behavior.
(XENOS pain and fighting)
[BELL] That's not good!
[FELS] My robe repels status
effects and curses like this.
[DIX] It looks like a couple
of 'em were able to dodge it...
(DIX sarcastic sigh)
[DIX] Oh well.
[DIX] Let the feasting begin!
(TROLL A roaring)
(BELL block)
(TROLL A effect)
(swing) (charge)
(BELL pain)
(steadies self) (brace)
(LIDO attack) (blasted back)
[FELS] Forgive me, Lido...
[FELS] Bell Cranel, stop Hazer!
(BELL notice)
[FELS] A curse like this is
broken by defeating the caster!
[FELS] The Xenos will
regain their senses!
(BELL determined)
[DIX] You sure about this,
little fella
[DIX] I am a level five, y'know.
(BELL tense)
[FELS] Curses are powerful,
but they take a toll on
those who wield them.
[FELS] He ought to be feeling
the side effects at this very
moment!
[DIX] Ah... Well, shit...
[DIX] Guess we better
get started.
[BELL, internal] A lvl. 5...
[BELL] But if I can stop him,
the Xenos will go
back to normal...!
[BELL] Wait for me, Wiene!
I'm coming...
(BELL determined)
(BELL jump)
(DIX cocky)
(BELL attack)
(Ending Song, "Evergreen")
[HESTIA] Next time:
"Dix Perdix."